[JEP-237] Introduce initial documentation for FIPS-140 (#6675)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/FIPS-140/index.adoc

---
layout: developerchapter
summary: FIPS-140 for developers
wip: true
title: FIPS-140 for developers
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/237/README.adoc
  title: JEP-237 FIPS-140 support for Jenkins
- url: hhttps://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/140-2/upd2/final
  title: FIPS-140-2 Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules
---

> In order for code in Jenkins and plugins to be compliant with FIPS-140 care needs to be taken that sensitive information is correctly handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the code in Jenkins and plugins to be compliant with FIPS-140, sensitive information needs to be handled correctly.
```

> This document provides a non exhaustive cheat-sheet that can be used to guide developers to write code that is FIPS-140 compliant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides a nonexhaustive cheat sheet that can guide developers to write code that is FIPS-140 compliant.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This document provides a non-exhaustive cheat sheet that can guide developers to write code that is FIPS-140 compliant.
```

> This applies to all forms of cryptography regardless of it is is encryption/decryption,  hashing, or signing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This applies to all forms of cryptography, regardless if it is encryption/decryption, hashing, or signing.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
FIPS-140 compliant code may result in less security as the approved standards can lag behind more secure modern standards.
Therefore your plugin and Jenkins code should not blindly follow the tips here, but may additionally need to make decisions at runtime if to use a FIPS-140 compliant option or something else.
====

Any sensitive information for accessing an external system that is persisted should be stored either as a link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/hudson/util/Secret.html[`hudson.util.Secret`] or a link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/plugin/credentials/com/cloudbees/plugins/credentials/Credentials.html[`com.cloudbees.plugins.credentials.Credentials`]

> Rely on only on link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/security/java-cryptography-architecture-jca-reference-guide.html#GUID-3E0744CE-6AC7-4A6D-A1F6-6C01199E6920[Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA)] or link:https://bouncycastle.org/java.html[BouncyCastle] via the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/bouncycastle-api/[BouncyCastle API plugin] when perfoming crytography.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rely only on link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/security/java-cryptography-architecture-jca-reference-guide.html#GUID-3E0744CE-6AC7-4A6D-A1F6-6C01199E6920[Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA)] or link:https://bouncycastle.org/java.html[BouncyCastle] via the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/bouncycastle-api/[BouncyCastle API plugin] when performing cryptography.
```

> Do not depend on any 3rd party libraries to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not depend on any 3rd party libraries or write your own code to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.
```

> Do not depend on any 3rd party libraries to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not depend on any third-party libraries to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.
```

Author: Combining the two suggestions.

```suggestion
Do not depend on any third-party libraries or write your own code to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.
```

> Additionally the subset of algorithms used should be restricted to the subset this is link:https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/3514[supported] by the link:https://downloads.bouncycastle.org/fips-java/BC-FJA-UserGuide-1.0.2.pdf[BouncyCastle FIPS]implementaion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the subset of algorithms that are used should be restricted to the subset that is link:https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/3514[supported] by the link:https://downloads.bouncycastle.org/fips-java/BC-FJA-UserGuide-1.0.2.pdf[BouncyCastle FIPS]implementation.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, the subset of algorithms that are used should be restricted to the subset that is link:https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/3514[supported] by the link:https://downloads.bouncycastle.org/fips-java/BC-FJA-UserGuide-1.0.2.pdf[BouncyCastle FIPS] implementation.
```

[NOTE]
====
FIPS-140 has no support for asymmetric encryption such as RSA.
====

> If there is a tradeoff to be made between FIPS-140 support or a more secure option the tradeoff should be made at runtime by checking link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/jenkins/security/FIPS140.html#useCompliantAlgorithms()[`jenkins.security.FIPS140.useCompliantAlgorithms`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a tradeoff made between FIPS-140 support or a more secure option, the tradeoff should be made at runtime by checking link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/jenkins/security/FIPS140.html#useCompliantAlgorithms()[`jenkins.security.FIPS140.useCompliantAlgorithms`].
```

> If there is a tradeoff to be made between FIPS-140 support or a more secure option the tradeoff should be made at runtime by checking link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/jenkins/security/FIPS140.html#useCompliantAlgorithms()[`jenkins.security.FIPS140.useCompliantAlgorithms`]

Reviewer 2: I miss an example on how to do this, the intent is clear but the implementation can be verty error prone

Author: added in 148d3523bf38c3fdd81dcc96d1259c091b8e3934

> If Using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`kava.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[]`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[]`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`kava.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained through link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[]`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[]`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].
```

Author: ```suggestion
If Using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`kava.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].
```

> If Using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`kava.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[]`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[]`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`java.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[]`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[]`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].
```

> Do not use any of the methods pr constructor that take an optional `seed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not use any of the methods or constructors that take an optional `seed`.
```

Do not depend on any third-party libraries or write your own code to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.
Additionally, the subset of algorithms that are used should be restricted to the subset that is link:https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/3514[supported] by the link:https://downloads.bouncycastle.org/fips-java/BC-FJA-UserGuide-1.0.2.pdf[BouncyCastle FIPS] implementation.
[NOTE]
====
FIPS-140 has no support for asymmetric encryption such as RSA.
====

If there is a tradeoff made between FIPS-140 support or a more secure option, the tradeoff should be made at runtime by checking link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/jenkins/security/FIPS140.html#useCompliantAlgorithms()[`jenkins.security.FIPS140.useCompliantAlgorithms`].
An example of changing behaviour can be found in link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/8483[this pull request].

> If Using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`java.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`java.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].
```

Do not use any of the methods or constructors that take an optional `seed`.

[NOTE]
====
This guidance is applicable to all libraries that your plugin bundles, or uses from Jenkins core. 

> Jenkins core may provide some libraries that are not FIPS-140 compliant for some API calls, but are when called by Jenkins core itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jenkins core may provide some libraries that are not FIPS-140 compliant for some API calls, but are compliant when called by Jenkins core itself.
```
I am not sure if this is what you meant here, just wanted to make it concrete

Author: @julieheard I am trying to say just because the library is provided by Jenkins core, that it may not be safe to use, so should not be assumed as compliant.

```suggestion
Jenkins core may provide some libraries that are not FIPS-140 compliant for some API calls, but Jenkins itself may not utilize these specific methods.
```

---
layout: developerchapter
summary: FIPS-140 for developers

> wip: true

Reviewer 4: Optional.  I've not found the "work in progress" flag to be very helpful for developer documentation.  They are all a work in progress.  This page has good information and useful information.  The reader doesn't gain much by marking it a work in progress, though I'm also fine if you choose to leave it as a work in progress.
```suggestion
```

Author: sure.  I think it is important that to convey that the list is not complete.

perhaps a specific admonition instead?

Reviewer 4: No problem to leave it as work in progress.  That's a good way of saying that more information is coming in the future.

title: FIPS-140 for developers
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/237/README.adoc
  title: JEP-237 FIPS-140 support for Jenkins
- url: hhttps://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/140-2/upd2/final
  title: FIPS-140-2 Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules
---

In order for the code in Jenkins and plugins to be compliant with FIPS-140, sensitive information needs to be handled correctly.
This document provides a non-exhaustive cheat sheet that can guide developers to write code that is FIPS-140 compliant.
This applies to all forms of cryptography, regardless if it is encryption/decryption, hashing, or signing.

> [IMPORTANT]

Reviewer 4: Optional.  I believe that blocks like this are usually preceded by a blank line.  It renders correctly whether the blank line is added or not.
```suggestion

[IMPORTANT]
```

Rely only on link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/security/java-cryptography-architecture-jca-reference-guide.html#GUID-3E0744CE-6AC7-4A6D-A1F6-6C01199E6920[Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA)] or link:https://bouncycastle.org/java.html[BouncyCastle] via the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/bouncycastle-api/[BouncyCastle API plugin] when performing cryptography.
Do not depend on any third-party libraries or write your own code to perform encryption or specify any specific link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/Provider.html[`java.security.Provider`] when obtaining a concrete JCA implementation.
Additionally, the subset of algorithms that are used should be restricted to the subset that is link:https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/3514[supported] by the link:https://downloads.bouncycastle.org/fips-java/BC-FJA-UserGuide-1.0.2.pdf[BouncyCastle FIPS] implementation.
[NOTE]
====
FIPS-140 has no support for asymmetric encryption such as RSA.
====

> If there is a tradeoff made between FIPS-140 support or a more secure option, the tradeoff should be made at runtime by checking link:https://javadoc.jenkins.io/jenkins/security/FIPS140.html#useCompliantAlgorithms()[`jenkins.security.FIPS140.useCompliantAlgorithms`].

Reviewer 4: This link won't resolve until Jenkins 2.426 is released and its Javadoc is available from https://javadoc.jenkins.io .

Author: which IIUC is tomorrow, so merging a day early for developer docs wouldn't seem to be the end of the world?

Reviewer 4: Wholehearted agreement that it is perfectly fine to merge with this link temporarily broken.

If using a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html[`java.security.SecureRandom`] it should be obtained via link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#%3Cinit%3E()[`new SecureRandom()`] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/SecureRandom.html#getInstanceStrong()[`SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong()`].
Do not use any of the methods or constructors that take an optional `seed`.

[NOTE]
====
Jenkins core may provide some libraries that are not FIPS-140 compliant for some API calls, but the specific calls that Jenkins makes to these libraries are compliant.
Therefore it is important that this guidance is applied to all libraries used by your your plugin, regardless of if it is bundled in the plugin or comes from a transitive dependency such as Jenkins core or another plugin.

====

Care must be taken when obtaining / creating a link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/security/KeyStore.html[`java.security.KeyStore`].

> The majority of ``Keystore``s provided by stock JDKs are not FIPS-140 compliant, and the one that is, can not be used to store keys only certificates.

Reviewer 4: Minor optional punctuation change.
```suggestion
The majority of ``Keystore``s provided by stock JDKs are not FIPS-140 compliant, and the one that is can not be used to store keys only certificates.
```
